DOCS-3077, DOCS-3037, DOCS-3038 AppSec Landing Page, Getting Started, Setup n Config (#12951)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/security_platform/application_security/getting_started/dotnet.md

---
title: .NET Applications
kind: documentation
code_lang: dotnet
type: multi-code-lang
code_lang_weight: 10
further_reading:
    - link: 'https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-dotnet'
      tag: 'GitHub'
      text: '.NET Datadog Library source code'
---

{{% appsec-getstarted %}}

## Get started

1. **Download the [Datadog .NET library][1]**, at least version 2.2.0, for your target operating system architecture.

   For information about which language and framework versions are supported by the library, see [Compatibility][2].

> 2. **Enable Application Security Monitoring** by setting the `DD_APPSEC_ENABLED` environment variable to `true`. For example, on Windows self-hosted, run the following PowerShell snippet as part of your application start up script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Enable Application Security Monitoring** by setting the `DD_APPSEC_ENABLED` environment variable to `true`. For example, on Windows self-hosted, run the following PowerShell snippet as part of your application start up script:
```

   ```
   $target=[System.EnvironmentVariableTarget]::Process
   [System.Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable("DD_APPSEC_ENABLED","true",$target)
   ```

   **Or** one of the following methods, depending on where your application runs:

   {{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Windows self-hosted" %}}

In a Windows console: 

```
rem Set environment variables
SET CORECLR_ENABLE_PROFILING=1
SET CORECLR_PROFILER={846F5F1C-F9AE-4B07-969E-05C26BC060D8}
SET DD_APPSEC_ENABLED=true

rem Start application
dotnet.exe example.dll
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "IIS" %}}

Run the following PowerShell command as administrator to configure the necessary environment variables in the registry `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Session Manager\Environment` and restart IIS.
```
$target=[System.EnvironmentVariableTarget]::Machine
[System.Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable("DD_APPSEC_ENABLED","true",$target)
net stop was /y
net start w3svc
```

> **Or**, For IIS services exclusively, on WAS and W3SVC with Powershell as an administrator, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Or**, for IIS services exclusively, on WAS and W3SVC with Powershell as an administrator, run:
```

```
$target=[System.EnvironmentVariableTarget]::Machine
[System.Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable("DD_APPSEC_ENABLED","true",$target)
net stop was /y
net start w3svc
```

**Or**, for IIS services exclusively, on WAS and W3SVC with Powershell as an administrator, run:

```
$appsecPart = "DD_APPSEC_ENABLED=true"
[string[]] $defaultvariable = @("CORECLR_ENABLE_PROFILING=1", "CORECLR_PROFILER={846F5F1C-F9AE-4B07-969E-05C26BC060D8}", $appsecPart)

function Add-AppSec {

    param (
        $path
    )
    $v = (Get-ItemProperty -Path $path).Environment
    If ($v -eq $null) {
        Set-ItemProperty -Path $path -Name "Environment" -Value $defaultvariable
    }
    ElseIf (-not ($v -match $appsecPart)) {
        $v += " " + $appsecPart;
        Set-ItemProperty -Path $path -Name "Environment" -Value $v
    }
}
Add-AppSec -path "HKLM:SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\WAS\"
Add-AppSec -path "HKLM:SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\W3SVC\"

net stop was /y
net start w3svc
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Or**, to avoid editing registry keys, edit the application settings in the `web.config` file of your application: 

<configuration>
  <appSettings>
        <add key="DD_APPSEC_ENABLED" value="true"/>
  </appSettings>
</configuration>
```

Author: ```suggestion
**Or**, to avoid editing registry keys, edit the application settings in the `web.config` file of your application: 
```
	<configuration>
	  <appSettings>
	        <add key="DD_APPSEC_ENABLED" value="true"/>
	  </appSettings>
	</configuration>
```
```

> **Or**, to avoid editing registry keys, edit the IIS `applicationHost.config` file, usually in `C:\Windows\System32\inetsrv\config\` and add the environment variable at the pool level: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This can also be done at IIS application pool's level in the `applicationHost.config` file, usually in `C:\Windows\System32\inetsrv\config\`: 
```
